What if you wanna know
the most favorited band?
It's a pretty good one, right?
SELECT, and we're gonna do COUNT(f.value),
and we're gonna call favorites,
value, AS count, and
f.value, cool, FROM users, or,
let's just do it this way, FROM users.
And then we're gonna use something
called a table-valued functions.
I'll be honest, again,
I learned about this for this course, so
I've not previously used these before, but
I was just sitting there looking at the
data and was like, what other interesting
things could we derive from a table
with this kind of information?
And so
there's a function here called json_each.
You give it the data and
give it the value out of it.
The reason why you have to query this
as a table is because it's actually
creating rows, right?
It's actually gonna pull
all of the tables out, and
it's gonna make them their own row,
whereas before they were not rows before.
So you have to essentially
add to your result set.
And if you hear that, like, hey,
I'm adding things to my results set,
it's probably a table-valued function.
>> Brian Holt: Favorites, and
I'm gonna call that f, right?
That's where the f.value and the f,
yeah, all that stuff is coming from.
>> Brian Holt: And then, after I've done
that, I can just do a group by, right?
GROUP BY, f.value and
then ORDER BY, count DESC.
Hopefully that works.
So you can see here, 4 people liked
Radiohead, 3 people liked Daft Punk,
and then a bunch of people liked 2,
and a bunch of ones.
>> Brian Holt: Pretty cool, though, right?
>> Brian Holt: So I left a link in here,
if you wanna learn more about
table-valued functions.
It's one of the things I like about, these
are obviously very technical docs, but
I think they do a pretty good job of
taking pretty serious technical topics and
making them as accessible as
database language can be.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, again,
I don't too commonly use them, but
it's cool to know that they're there.
Another thing I wanted to know is how
do I add someone to my favorites?
This is one that, it took me a bit
of spinning to figure out, but
remember whenever you use
one of those JSON functions.
Because it's just a string and
it's not really an object,
it's not like JavaScript where you just
add to the object that works, right?
You actually have to
create a new object and
reinsert it back into
the database using a replace.
So, let's do that.
We're gonna do a UPDATE,
users, SET, data =,
and then we're gonna do a json_insert.
>> Brian Holt: Let's do
this on its own line.
And then what I'm gonna do is,
I'm gonna do a subquery,
SELECT data FROM users WHERE email
= 'brian@example.com'.
>> Brian Holt: That's gonna give me back
the actual current jsonb representation of
the user brian@example.com, right?
So that's the first argument
in my json_insert, okay?
I'm gonna go and I'm gonna grab favorites.
>> Brian Holt: And
then I wanna put it on the end, and
this actually wasn't possible
until quite recently.
You actually had to pull out the entire
array and reconstruct the entire array.
But they added this thing here
where you can just put a # here and
that just says, tack it on the end,
right, which is much nicer to do.
Okay, and then I wanna add The xx,
which is sort of my other favorite bands.
I'm gonna close that.
And then now we're just
gonna say WHERE email
= `brian@example.com`, okay?
And now I guess I could
have done returning, right?
But now let's just say SELECT,
>> Brian Holt: *FROM
users,
>> Brian Holt: WHERE email
= `brian@example.com`,
you know what I did?
I didn't even realize that.
I did json_insert, which is actually
not what we really wanted to do.
We wanted to do jsonb.
So now notice this is actually,
it looks JSON now, right?
One of the dangers of flexible typing.
>> Brian Holt: And
the fact that these are just strings,
they're not actually really JSON objects.
>> Brian Holt: How would I fix that?
This is almost close to
what you would need,
just not a,
>> Brian Holt: So
get rid of this, get rid of that,
>> Brian Holt: And
I think you just say jsonb, right?
>> Brian Holt: Yolo,
when you send an SQL query,
you have to yell yolo, or it doesn't work.
>> Student: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Cool, all right, so
now this is actually correct
where you really want it to be.
BrianGlasstGHolt, that's really my name.
I didn't know that but SQL knew.
You are all now JSON Jedis,
as they call them.